Cockpit 335 (#792)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2025-03-12-cockpit-335.md

---
title: Cockpit 335
author: pitti
date: '2025-03-12'
tags: cockpit, machines
slug: cockpit-335
category: release
summary: 'SMART status, fixed remote VNC/SPICE launcher viewing'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 335 and cockpit-machines 329:

## Storage: SMART device health

> The Storage page now shows disk device health and can run on-demand disk self check tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Storage page now shows disk device health and can run disk self-check tests on demand.
```

![smart1]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/335-storage-smart-device-health.png)

![smart2]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/335-storage-smart-device-health-2.png)

> ## Machines: Fix launching remote viewer
> 
> The "Launch viewer" button in Cockpit Machines works by letting the browser download a small `application/x-virt-viewer`  type file, which launches the "virt-viewer" application. This did not always work reliably since Cockpit would not pass a filename along with the content of the file. This has been fixed and the "Launch viewer" button should now work in all situations (where virt-viewer is installed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Machines: Fix remote viewer launching

The "Launch viewer" button in Cockpit Machines now reliably launches "virt-viewer". The fix adds a generated filename to the `application/x-virt-viewer` helper file, resolving browser-specific launch issues. The filename also clarifies the file's purpose in the downloads folder.
```
